# $.views.viewModels method
## API
### intro
The `$.views.viewModels` method will create a view model.

### parameter
+ getter: should be an an array of string (or can be evaluated to string) which defines an array of `getter-setter` methods in the view model.

Each element defines a `getter-setter` method whose name is the element itself. 

> [!NOTE]
> a `getter-setter` method behaves similarly as a `getter-setter` property,
>
> but when you want to access the value of the `getter-setter` method, you can invoke it (such as `person.price()`)
>
> To access value `getter-setter` property, you can use it directly (such as `person.name`);

+ extend: should be a map which defines all methods in the view model. In each key-value pair,

the key should be a string (or can be evaluated to string) which declares a method name.

, while the value should be a anomyous function which defines the method.

### returned
It will return a object as a view model.

## instantiate an object with a view model
Simply invoke the view model as a function and passed the arguments for initial value of `getter-setter` methods respectively.

> [!WARNING]
> I don't say instantiate it as a class since we can't use `new` keyword before a view model.
>
> For example,
>
> we can't use
> 
> `var nico = new Person("Nico","3.50");` (where `Person` is a view model created by `$.views.viewModels` method call)
>
> we should use
> 
> `var nico = Person("Nico","3.50");`
>
> The reason why it is `$.views.viewModels` create a view model with factory method that will instantiate an object with `new` internally.
>
> For more details, see [Notes on Creating View Model instances, using the View Model constructor section in `$.views.viewModels` (JsRender Docs)](https://www.jsviews.com/#viewmodelsapi@construct)
